# Methodologies
This study builds on the method proposed by Fitton et al. (2021), which was based upon the methodologies of Kazmierczak et al. (2015), Lindley & O’Neil (2013), and Lindley (2011) and focused on social vulnerability to environmental hazards in Ireland. The updated methodology focuses on specific hazards and proposes a set of potential indicators available for different European cities and regions (including Cork City, Ireland, Logroño and the La Rioja Region in Spain and Milan in Italy), derived through detailed discussions with local authorities and the exploration of the most up to date national census data and Copernicus data under the REACHOUT project.  and integrates them as proposed by Fitton et al. (2021) in a hierarchy scheme, grouping the indicators into domains and collating the domains to create the dimensions of social vulnerability (sensitivity, adaptive capacity and enhanced exposure). This work is also being further progressed through the Directed project,. which aims to reduce vulnerability to extreme weather events and foster disaster-resilient European societies, and through the TALX2 project which aims to support and progress climate adaptation activities on the island of Ireland using place-based partnerships. Case studies from these projects include the areas of Rimini, Italy (Directed) and Northern Ireland (TALX2). As proposed by Fitton et al. (2021) indicators are integrated into a hierarchy scheme. Indicators are grouped into domains, with Z-scores for each domain summed with an equal weighting for the spatial area used. The domains are then collated and associated with dimensions of social vulnerability (sensitivity, adaptive capacity and enhanced exposure). Through this research changes were made to the Fitton et al. (2021) methodology, in particular through the use of hazard specific indicators for the dimensions of vulnerability and the inclusion of the housing characteristics Additionally, the domain in the adaptive capacity dimension, as well as the of housing characteristics., which Fitton et al. (2021) had grouped under only the enhanced exposure dimension, as severalhas indicators that were found to consideredbe relevant to the adaptive capacity dimension (Table 1).  as well and have now been included in both. 

